README.adoc, before:

= Gatling Plugin for Gradle
:gatlingToolVersion: 2.3.1
:scalaVersion: 2.12.3
:toc: macro

image:https://gatling.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Gatling-logo.png[Gatling,link="http://gatling.io/"]

image:https://api.travis-ci.org/lkishalmi/gradle-gatling-plugin.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/lkishalmi/gradle-gatling-plugin"]

image:https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/nwjs/nw.js.svg["Gitter",link="https://gitter.im/gradle-gatling-plugin/Lobby"]

toc::[]

== Installation

Follow the steps described at https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/com.github.lkishalmi.gatling[Gradle Plugin Portal page].

Java 8 Upgrade::
* Due to a bug Gatling 2.2.0 is supported only from gradle-gatling-plugin version 0.3.0
* JDK 8 is required for Gatling 2.2.0, so this plugin is also require JDK8

For whatever reason you stuck with JDK 7, please keep using the 0.2.x series of this plugin.

== Project Layout

=== Folders overview

The plugin uses `src/gatling` as its source root.
There are several folders serving different purposes under the source root.

* Simulation sources direcrory
* Feeder data directory
* Request bodies directory
* Configuration directory

This plugin supports two project layouts.

* Standard Gradle/Maven layout
* Gatling-like layout

There's no need to explicitly setup any of those.
Plugin auto-detects layout during examination of project's folder structure.

=== Standard Gradle/Maven layout

[options="header"]
|===
|Directory                      |   Purpose
|`src/gatling/scala`            |   Simulation sources
|`src/gatling/resources/data`   |   Feeder data
|`src/gatling/resources/bodies` |   Request bodies
|`src/gatling/resources/conf`   |   Configuration
|===

=== Gatling-like layout

[options="header"]
|===
|Directory                  |   Purpose
|`src/gatling/simulations`  |   Simulation sources
|`src/gatling/data`         |   Feeder data
|`src/gatling/bodies`       |   Request bodies
|`src/gatling/conf`         |   Configuration
|===

== Plugin configuration

The plugin defines the following extension properties in the `gatling` closure

[cols="1,1,4a,1a", options="header"]
|===
|Property name      |Type           |Default value                              |Description
|toolVersion        |String         |'{gatlingToolVersion}'                     |`Gatling` version
|logLevel           |String         |'WARN'
|The default Gatling console log level if no `logback.xml` present in the configutation folder
|scalaVersion       |String         |'{scalaVersion}'                           |`scala` version that fits your `Gatling` tool version
|jvmArgs
|List<String>
|[source,groovy]
----
['-server', '-Xmx1G',
'-XX:+UseG1GC', '-XX:MaxGCPauseMillis=30', 
'-XX:G1HeapRegionSize=16m',
'-XX:InitiatingHeapOccupancyPercent=75', 
'-XX:+ParallelRefProcEnabled', 
'-XX:+PerfDisableSharedMem', 
'-XX:+AggressiveOpts', 
'-XX:+OptimizeStringConcat',
'-XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError', 
'-Djava.net.preferIPv4Stack=true', 
'-Djava.net.preferIPv6Addresses=false']
----
| Additional arguments passed to JVM when executing `Gatling` simulations

|simulations
|Closure or Iterable<String>
|[source,groovy]
----
{ include "**/*Simulation.scala" }
----
| Simulations filter. +
If closure then https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/working_with_files.html[See Gradle docs] for details,
otherwise an Iterable of simulations fully qualified names.
|===

=== Custom source folder

If you have a special layout you can configure the source root folder and all gatling specific folders.
Currently you have to set the source sets accordingly.

+
[source,groovy]
----
project.sourceSets {
    gatling {
        scala.srcDirs = ['src/test/gatling']
        resources.srcDirs = ['src/test/gatling/user-files/simulations', 'src/test/gatling/user-files/data', 'src/test/gatling/user-files/body', 'src/test/gatling/conf']
    }
}

gatling {
    sourceRoot = 'src/test/gatling'
    simulationsDir = 'user-files/simulations' <1>
    dataDir = 'user-files/data' <2>
    bodiesDir = 'user-files/bodies' <3>
    confDir = 'conf' <4>
}
----
<1> the plugin looks for simulations in `src/test/gatling/user-files/simulations`
<2> data is located in `src/test/gatling/user-files/data`
<3> request bodies are be placed in `src/test/gatling/user-files/bodies`
<4> gatling configuration is located in `src/test/gatling/conf`

=== Examples

Overriding Gatling version and JVM arguments::
+
[source,groovy,subs="attributes"]
----
gatling {
    toolVersion = '{gatlingToolVersion}'
    jvmArgs = [ '-server', '-Xms512M', '-Xmx512M' ]
}
----

Filtering simulations using FQN list::
+
[source,groovy]
----
gatling {
    simulations = [ 'com.package1.MySimu', 'com.package2.advanced.MySimulation' ] <1>
}
----
<1> only execute `com.package1.MySimu` and `com.package2.advanced.MySimulation` simulations.

Filtering simulations using Groovy closure::
+
[source,groovy]
----
gatling {
    simulations = {
        include "**/package1/*Simu.scala"    <1>
        include "**/package2/*Simulation.scala"  <2>
    }
}
----
<1> all `Scala` files from plugin simulation dir subfolder `package1` ending with `Simu`.
<2> all `Scala` files from plugin simulation dir subfolder `package2` ending with `Simulation`.

== Logging

`Gatling` uses `logback` to customize its output.
To change logging behaviour, put your `logback.xml` into configuration folder,
i.e. `src/gatling/resources/conf` or `src/gatling/conf` depending on choosen project layout.

If no custom `logback.xml` provided,
by default plugin will implicitly use following configuration.

[source,xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<configuration>
  <appender name="CONSOLE" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
    <encoder>
      <pattern>%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%thread] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n</pattern>
      <immediateFlush>false</immediateFlush>
    </encoder>
  </appender>
  <root level="${logLevel}"> <1>
    <appender-ref ref="CONSOLE"/>
  </root>
</configuration>
----
<1> `logLevel` is configured via plugin extension, `WARN` by default.

== Dependency Management

This plugin defines three configurations `gatling`, `gatlingCompile` and `gatlingRuntime`.
By default plugin adds `Gatling` libraries to `gatling` configuration.
Configurations `gatlingCompile` and `gatlingRuntime` extend `gatling`, i.e. all dependencies declared in `gatling` will be inherited.

Also project classes (`src/main`) and tests classes (`src/test`) are added to `gatlingCompile` and `gatlingRuntime` classpath,
so you can reuse existing production and test code in your simulations.

Additional dependencies can be added by plugin's users to any of configurations mentioned above.

Example::
[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    gatling 'com.google.code.gson:gson:2.8.0' <1>
    gatlingCompile 'org.apache.commons:commons-lang3:3.4' <2>
    gatlingRuntime 'cglib:cglib-nodep:3.2.0' <3>
}
----
<1> adding `gson` library, available both in compile and runtime classpath.
<2> adding `commons-lang3` to compile classpath for simulations.
<3> adding `cglib` to runtime classpath for simulations.

== Tasks

Plugin provides dedicated task `GatlingRunTask` that is responsible for execute gatling simulations.
Customer may create instances of this task to execue particular simulations.
Task extends Gradle's `JavaExec` task.

=== Default tasks

Additionally plugin creates several default tasks

[options="header"]
|===

|Task name |Type |Description

|`gatlingClasses`
|-
|Compiles `Gatling` simulation and copies resources

|`gatlingRun`
|GatlingRunTask
|Executes all `Gatling` simulations configured by extension

|`gatlingRun-SimulationFQN`
|GatlingRunTask
|Executes single `Gatling` simulation, +
_SimulationFQN_ should be replaced by fully qualified simulation class name.

|===

=== Examples

Run all simulations::
+
  $ gradle gatlingRun

Run single simulation implemented in `com.project.simu.MySimulation` class::
+
  $ gradle gatlingRun-com.project.simu.MySimulation

== Troubleshooting and known issues

=== Spring Boot and Netty version

https://github.com/lkishalmi/gradle-gatling-plugin/issues/53[Original issue]

Caused by `io.spring.dependency-management` plugin and Spring platform BOM files.
The dependency management plugin ensures that all declared dependencies have exactly the same versions as declared in BOM.
Since `Spring Boot` declares own `Netty` version (e.g. `4.1.22.Final`) - this version is applied globally 
for all the configurations of the `Gradle` project, even if configuration doesn't use `Spring`.

There's 2 ways of solving the problem, depending on the actual usage of `Netty` in the project

* When production code doesn't rely on `Netty`

[source]
.build.gradle
----
ext['netty.version'] = '4.0.51.Final'
----

This declares `Netty` version globally for all transitive dependencies in your project, including `Spring`.

* When production code uses `Netty`

[source]
.build.gradle
----
dependencyManagement {
    gatling {
        dependencies {
            dependencySet(group: 'io.netty', version: '4.0.51.Final') {
               entry 'netty-codec-http'
               entry 'netty-codec'
               entry 'netty-handler'
               entry 'netty-buffer'
               entry 'netty-transport'
               entry 'netty-common'
               entry 'netty-transport-native-epoll'
            }
        }
    }
}
----

This options ensures that `4.0.51.Final` will be used only for `gatling` configurations, leaving other dependencies unchanged.

Commit message:

Introduce config options to exclude main/test outputs from gatlingCompile

README.adoc, after:

= Gatling Plugin for Gradle
:gatlingToolVersion: 2.3.1
:scalaVersion: 2.12.3
:toc: macro

image:https://gatling.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Gatling-logo.png[Gatling,link="http://gatling.io/"]

image:https://api.travis-ci.org/lkishalmi/gradle-gatling-plugin.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/lkishalmi/gradle-gatling-plugin"]

image:https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/nwjs/nw.js.svg["Gitter",link="https://gitter.im/gradle-gatling-plugin/Lobby"]

toc::[]

== Installation

Follow the steps described at https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/com.github.lkishalmi.gatling[Gradle Plugin Portal page].

Java 8 Upgrade::
* Due to a bug Gatling 2.2.0 is supported only from gradle-gatling-plugin version 0.3.0
* JDK 8 is required for Gatling 2.2.0, so this plugin is also require JDK8

For whatever reason you stuck with JDK 7, please keep using the 0.2.x series of this plugin.

== Project Layout

=== Folders overview

The plugin uses `src/gatling` as its source root.
There are several folders serving different purposes under the source root.

* Simulation sources direcrory
* Feeder data directory
* Request bodies directory
* Configuration directory

This plugin supports two project layouts.

* Standard Gradle/Maven layout
* Gatling-like layout

There's no need to explicitly setup any of those.
Plugin auto-detects layout during examination of project's folder structure.

=== Standard Gradle/Maven layout

[options="header"]
|===
|Directory                      |   Purpose
|`src/gatling/scala`            |   Simulation sources
|`src/gatling/resources/data`   |   Feeder data
|`src/gatling/resources/bodies` |   Request bodies
|`src/gatling/resources/conf`   |   Configuration
|===

=== Gatling-like layout

[options="header"]
|===
|Directory                  |   Purpose
|`src/gatling/simulations`  |   Simulation sources
|`src/gatling/data`         |   Feeder data
|`src/gatling/bodies`       |   Request bodies
|`src/gatling/conf`         |   Configuration
|===

== Plugin configuration

The plugin defines the following extension properties in the `gatling` closure

[cols="1,1,4a,1a", options="header"]
|===
|Property name      |Type           |Default value                              |Description
|toolVersion        |String         |'{gatlingToolVersion}'                     |`Gatling` version
|logLevel           |String         |'WARN'
|The default Gatling console log level if no `logback.xml` present in the configutation folder
|includeMainOutput  |Boolean        |true                                       |Include main source set output to gatlingCompile
|includeTestOutput  |Boolean        |true                                       |Include test source set output to gatlingCompile
|scalaVersion       |String         |'{scalaVersion}'                           |`scala` version that fits your `Gatling` tool version
|jvmArgs
|List<String>
|[source,groovy]
----
['-server', '-Xmx1G',
'-XX:+UseG1GC', '-XX:MaxGCPauseMillis=30', 
'-XX:G1HeapRegionSize=16m',
'-XX:InitiatingHeapOccupancyPercent=75', 
'-XX:+ParallelRefProcEnabled', 
'-XX:+PerfDisableSharedMem', 
'-XX:+AggressiveOpts', 
'-XX:+OptimizeStringConcat',
'-XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError', 
'-Djava.net.preferIPv4Stack=true', 
'-Djava.net.preferIPv6Addresses=false']
----
| Additional arguments passed to JVM when executing `Gatling` simulations

|simulations
|Closure or Iterable<String>
|[source,groovy]
----
{ include "**/*Simulation.scala" }
----
| Simulations filter. +
If closure then https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/working_with_files.html[See Gradle docs] for details,
otherwise an Iterable of simulations fully qualified names.
|===

=== Custom source folder

If you have a special layout you can configure the source root folder and all gatling specific folders.
Currently you have to set the source sets accordingly.

+
[source,groovy]
----
project.sourceSets {
    gatling {
        scala.srcDirs = ['src/test/gatling']
        resources.srcDirs = ['src/test/gatling/user-files/simulations', 'src/test/gatling/user-files/data', 'src/test/gatling/user-files/body', 'src/test/gatling/conf']
    }
}

gatling {
    sourceRoot = 'src/test/gatling'
    simulationsDir = 'user-files/simulations' <1>
    dataDir = 'user-files/data' <2>
    bodiesDir = 'user-files/bodies' <3>
    confDir = 'conf' <4>
}
----
<1> the plugin looks for simulations in `src/test/gatling/user-files/simulations`
<2> data is located in `src/test/gatling/user-files/data`
<3> request bodies are be placed in `src/test/gatling/user-files/bodies`
<4> gatling configuration is located in `src/test/gatling/conf`

=== Examples

Overriding Gatling version and JVM arguments::
+
[source,groovy,subs="attributes"]
----
gatling {
    toolVersion = '{gatlingToolVersion}'
    jvmArgs = [ '-server', '-Xms512M', '-Xmx512M' ]
}
----

Filtering simulations using FQN list::
+
[source,groovy]
----
gatling {
    simulations = [ 'com.package1.MySimu', 'com.package2.advanced.MySimulation' ] <1>
}
----
<1> only execute `com.package1.MySimu` and `com.package2.advanced.MySimulation` simulations.

Filtering simulations using Groovy closure::
+
[source,groovy]
----
gatling {
    simulations = {
        include "**/package1/*Simu.scala"    <1>
        include "**/package2/*Simulation.scala"  <2>
    }
}
----
<1> all `Scala` files from plugin simulation dir subfolder `package1` ending with `Simu`.
<2> all `Scala` files from plugin simulation dir subfolder `package2` ending with `Simulation`.

== Logging

`Gatling` uses `logback` to customize its output.
To change logging behaviour, put your `logback.xml` into configuration folder,
i.e. `src/gatling/resources/conf` or `src/gatling/conf` depending on choosen project layout.

If no custom `logback.xml` provided,
by default plugin will implicitly use following configuration.

[source,xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<configuration>
  <appender name="CONSOLE" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
    <encoder>
      <pattern>%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%thread] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n</pattern>
      <immediateFlush>false</immediateFlush>
    </encoder>
  </appender>
  <root level="${logLevel}"> <1>
    <appender-ref ref="CONSOLE"/>
  </root>
</configuration>
----
<1> `logLevel` is configured via plugin extension, `WARN` by default.

== Dependency Management

This plugin defines three configurations `gatling`, `gatlingCompile` and `gatlingRuntime`.
By default plugin adds `Gatling` libraries to `gatling` configuration.
Configurations `gatlingCompile` and `gatlingRuntime` extend `gatling`, i.e. all dependencies declared in `gatling` will be inherited.

Also project classes (`src/main`) and tests classes (`src/test`) are added to `gatlingCompile` and `gatlingRuntime` classpath,
so you can reuse existing production and test code in your simulations.
If you don't need such behaviour, you can use flags:

Example::
[source,groovy]
----
gatling {
    // do not include classes and resources from src/main
    includeMainOutput = false
    // do not include classes and resources from src/test
    includeMainOutput = false
}
----

Additional dependencies can be added by plugin's users to any of configurations mentioned above.

Example::
[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    gatling 'com.google.code.gson:gson:2.8.0' <1>
    gatlingCompile 'org.apache.commons:commons-lang3:3.4' <2>
    gatlingRuntime 'cglib:cglib-nodep:3.2.0' <3>
}
----
<1> adding `gson` library, available both in compile and runtime classpath.
<2> adding `commons-lang3` to compile classpath for simulations.
<3> adding `cglib` to runtime classpath for simulations.

== Tasks

Plugin provides dedicated task `GatlingRunTask` that is responsible for execute gatling simulations.
Customer may create instances of this task to execue particular simulations.
Task extends Gradle's `JavaExec` task.

=== Default tasks

Additionally plugin creates several default tasks

[options="header"]
|===

|Task name |Type |Description

|`gatlingClasses`
|-
|Compiles `Gatling` simulation and copies resources

|`gatlingRun`
|GatlingRunTask
|Executes all `Gatling` simulations configured by extension

|`gatlingRun-SimulationFQN`
|GatlingRunTask
|Executes single `Gatling` simulation, +
_SimulationFQN_ should be replaced by fully qualified simulation class name.

|===

=== Examples

Run all simulations::
+
  $ gradle gatlingRun

Run single simulation implemented in `com.project.simu.MySimulation` class::
+
  $ gradle gatlingRun-com.project.simu.MySimulation

== Troubleshooting and known issues

=== Spring Boot and Netty version

https://github.com/lkishalmi/gradle-gatling-plugin/issues/53[Original issue]

Caused by `io.spring.dependency-management` plugin and Spring platform BOM files.
The dependency management plugin ensures that all declared dependencies have exactly the same versions as declared in BOM.
Since `Spring Boot` declares own `Netty` version (e.g. `4.1.22.Final`) - this version is applied globally 
for all the configurations of the `Gradle` project, even if configuration doesn't use `Spring`.

There's 2 ways of solving the problem, depending on the actual usage of `Netty` in the project

* When production code doesn't rely on `Netty`

[source]
.build.gradle
----
ext['netty.version'] = '4.0.51.Final'
----

This declares `Netty` version globally for all transitive dependencies in your project, including `Spring`.

* When production code uses `Netty`

[source]
.build.gradle
----
dependencyManagement {
    gatling {
        dependencies {
            dependencySet(group: 'io.netty', version: '4.0.51.Final') {
               entry 'netty-codec-http'
               entry 'netty-codec'
               entry 'netty-handler'
               entry 'netty-buffer'
               entry 'netty-transport'
               entry 'netty-common'
               entry 'netty-transport-native-epoll'
            }
        }
    }
}
----

This options ensures that `4.0.51.Final` will be used only for `gatling` configurations, leaving other dependencies unchanged.
